Update retl bq docs (#7134)
segmentio/segment-docs: src/connections/reverse-etl/reverse-etl-source-setup-guides/bigquery-setup.md

redirect_from:
  - '/reverse-etl/bigquery-setup/'
---

> 

Reviewer: hi @gilsegment - the docs team typically adds an intro sentence to help signpost for customers who may be scanning where they are and what they'll accomplish on a page - feel free to adjust this sentence as needed!

```suggestion

To set up your BigQuery source with Reverse ETL, you must [construct a BigQuery role and service account](#constructing-your-own-role-or-policy] and [create a BigQuery source in the Segment app](#set-up-bigquery-as-your-reverse-etl-source).

> warning ""
> You need to be an account admin to set up the Segment BigQuery connector as well as write permissions for the `__segment_reverse_etl` dataset.

> When creating a role and service-account, we offer two approaches:
> 1. **Grant Full Access**: This option provides Segment with all the necessary permissions and allows us to complete the setup for you automatically. It's the quicker option, requiring minimal effort on your part.
> 2. **Grant Limited Access**: This option is more secure, as it restricts permissions. However, due to the limited access, a few additional setup steps will need to be completed manually by you. These are one-time steps, and we will guide you through the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two approaches you can take when granting Segment access to your BigQuery resources: 
1. **Grant Full Access**: This option allows Segment to automatically complete the setup for you after you provide Segment with all the necessary permissions. This option requires less time and engineering effort on your part.
2. **Grant Limited Access**: This option is more secure, as it restricts the permissions Segment has access to. However, due to the limited access, you must complete a few additional setup steps. These are one-time steps, and the documentation provides you with the information required to complete this process.
```

> You are free to choose the approach that best suits your needs, and can skip the other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose the approach that best suits your needs.
```

> ### Grant Full Access
> With this approach we will use BigQuery predefined roles: 
> 1. Navigate to **IAM & Admin > Service Accounts** in BigQuery.

Reviewer: The docs team typically includes the program that you're in both for the first steps and for any steps where you change from one program to another!

```suggestion
### Grant Full Access
With this approach, use BigQuery predefined roles to create a service account for Segment to assume. 
1. In BigQuery, navigate to **IAM & Admin > Service Accounts**.
```

2. Click **+ Create Service Account** to create a new service account.

> 3. Enter your **Service account name** and a description of what the service-account will do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter your **Service account name** and a description of what the service account will do.

```

4. Click **Create and Continue**. 

> 5. Click **+ Add another role** and add the **BigQuery User** role. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Click **+ Add another role** and add the [**BigQuery User**](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.user) role. 
```

> 6. Click **+ Add another role** and add the **BigQuery Data Editor** role. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Click **+ Add another role** and add the [**BigQuery Data Editor**](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.dataEditor) role. 
```

> 7. Click **Continue**. 
> 8. Click **Done**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Click **Continue**., then click **Done**.
```

### Grant Limited Access

> With this approach we will use custom role with the below permissions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this approach, create a custom role for Segment with the following permissions:
```

Permission | Details
---------- | --------
`bigquery.datasets.get` | This allows Segment to determine if the `__segment_reverse_etl` dataset exists.
`bigquery.jobs.create` | This allows Segment to execute queries on any datasets or tables your model query references, and also allows Segment to manage tables used for tracking.

> 1. Navigate to **IAM & Admin > Roles** in BigQuery.

Reviewer: Same as the note above - starting with the program here

```suggestion
1. In BigQuery, navigate to **IAM & Admin > Roles**.
```

2. Click **+ CREATE ROLE** to create a new role.

> 3. Add **title** and **Description** as you like.
> 4. Click **ADD PERMISSIONS** and add the permission listed in the above tables. You will to repeat that until all required permissions were added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add a **Title** for your role and a **Description** of what the role will have access to.
4. Click **ADD PERMISSIONS** and add all of the permissions listed in the table above.
```

5. Click **CREATE**. 

> 6. Navigate to **IAM & Admin > Service Accounts** in BigQuery. 

Reviewer: When we stay in the same program, we typically don't note which program we're in!

```suggestion
6. Navigate to **IAM & Admin > Service Accounts**. 
```

7. Click **+ Create Service Account** to create a new service account. 
8. Enter your **Service account name** and a description of what the account will do. 
9. Click **Create and Continue**. 
10. In the **Grant this service account access to project** section, select the role you just created. 

> 11. Click **Continue**. 
> 12. Click **Done**. 

Reviewer: The docs site automatically has the correct numbering, so no need to worry about the rest of the items in this list!

```suggestion
11. Click **Continue**, then click **Done**. 
```

13. Navigate to the BigQuery SQL editor and create a dataset that will be used by Segment:

>     ```

Reviewer: This adds SQL syntax highlighting!

```suggestion
    ```sql
```

    CREATE SCHEMA IF NOT EXISTS `__segment_reverse_etl`;
    ```

> 14. Grant additional permissions just on the newly created dataset:

Reviewer 2: would be good to somehow link this URL to the BQ docs for that role, https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.dataEditor.

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```sql
```

    GRANT `roles/bigquery.dataEditor` ON SCHEMA `__segment_reverse_etl` TO "serviceAccount:<YOUR SERVICE ACCOUNT EMAIL>";
    ```

> 

Reviewer: I know this was its own few steps in the procedure for creating a BigQuery source in Segment, but it's probably a prerequisite and needs its own mini-procedure! 

```suggestion

### BigQuery resource location
When connecting your BigQuery warehouse to Segment, you'll need to know the location of your resources.

You can find the location of your BigQuery resources using the following method:
1. In the BigQuery console, navigate to your dataset. In the explorer panel on the left, expand the project and dataset to view the tables.
2. Click on the name of the dataset, and it opens a page showing its details.
3. The Location of the dataset (like US or EU) is displayed in the Dataset Info.

```

## Set up BigQuery as your Reverse ETL source

> 1. In the BigQuery console, search for the service account you just created. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the BigQuery console, search for the service account you created. 
```

2. When your service account pulls up, click the 3 dots under **Actions** and select **Manage keys**. 
3. Click **Add Key > Create new key**. 
4. In the pop-up window, select **JSON** for the key type and click **Create**. The file will be downloaded. 

> 5. Copy all the content within the **JSON** file created and downloaded in previous section. 
> 6. Navigate to the Segment UI and paste all the credentials you copied from previous step into the **Enter your credentials** section. 
> 7. Enter your **Data Location**. The data location can be found by:
>    - In the BigQuery console navigate to your dataset: In the explorer panel on the left, expand the project and dataset to view the tables.
>    - Click on the name of the dataset, and it will open a page showing its details.
>    - The Location of the dataset (like US or EU) is displayed in the Dataset Info.
> 8. Click **Test Connection** to test to see if the connection works. If the connection fails, make sure you have the right permissions and credentials and try again. 
> 9. Click **Add source** if the test connection is successful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Copy all the content in the JSON file you created in the previous step. 
6. Open the Segment app and navigate to **Connections > Sources**. 
7. On the My sources page, click **+ Add source**.  
8. Search for "BigQuery" and select the BigQuery source from the sources catalog. On the BigQuery overview page, click **Add Source**. 
9. On the Set up BigQuery page, enter a name for your source and paste all the credentials you copied from previous step into the **Enter your credentials** section. 
10. Enter the location of your BigQuery warehouse in the **Data Location** field. 
11. Click **Test Connection** to test to see if the connection works. If the connection fails, make sure you have the right permissions and credentials and try again. 
12. If the test connection completes successfully, click **Add source** to complete the setup process.
```

redirect_from:
  - '/reverse-etl/bigquery-setup/'
---

> > info "BigQuery Reverse ETL sources support Segment's dbt extension"

Reviewer: There needs to be an introductory sentence here - feel free to edit this comment to make changes to this sentence if you think something else would work better.

```suggestion
To set up your BigQuery source with Reverse ETL, you must [construct a BigQuery role and service account](#constructing-your-own-role-or-policy] and [create a BigQuery source in the Segment app](#set-up-bigquery-as-your-reverse-etl-source). 

> info "BigQuery Reverse ETL sources support Segment's dbt extension"
```

> If you have an existing dbt account with a Git repository, you can use [Segment's dbt extension](/docs/segment-app/extensions/dbt/) to centralize model management and versioning, reduce redundancies, and run CI checks to prevent breaking changes.

## Constructing your own role or policy

> warning ""
> You need to be an account admin to set up the Segment BigQuery connector as well as write permissions for the `__segment_reverse_etl` dataset.

There are two approaches you can take when granting Segment access to your BigQuery resources: 

> 1. **Grant Full Access**: This option allows Segment to automatically complete the setup for you after you provide Segment with all the necessary permissions. This option requires less time and engineering effort on your part.
> 2. **Grant Limited Access**: This option is more secure, as it restricts the permissions Segment has access to. However, due to the limited access, you must complete a few additional setup steps. These are one-time steps, and the documentation provides you with the information required to complete this process.

Reviewer: This should be an unordered list unless these options are ranked in order or are sequential steps

```suggestion
- **Grant Full Access**: This option allows Segment to automatically complete the setup for you after you provide Segment with all the necessary permissions. This option requires less time and engineering effort on your part.
- **Grant Limited Access**: This option is more secure, as it restricts the permissions Segment has access to. However, due to the limited access, you must complete a few additional setup steps. These are one-time steps, and the documentation provides you with the information required to complete this process.
```

You can choose the approach that best suits your needs.

### Grant Full Access
With this approach, use BigQuery predefined roles to create a service account for Segment to assume. 
1. In BigQuery, navigate to **IAM & Admin > Service Accounts**.
2. Click **+ Create Service Account** to create a new service account.
3. Enter your **Service account name** and a description of what the service account will do.

4. Click **Create and Continue**. 

> 5. Click **+ Add another role** and add the [**BigQuery User**](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.user) role. 
> 6. Click **+ Add another role** and add the [**BigQuery Data Editor**](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.dataEditor) role. 

Reviewer: All links that don't point to a resource on the segment.com/docs subdomain need the `{:target="_blank”}` attribute.

```suggestion
5. Click **+ Add another role** and add the [**BigQuery User**](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.user){:target="_blank”} role. 
6. Click **+ Add another role** and add the [**BigQuery Data Editor**](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/access-control#bigquery.dataEditor){:target="_blank”} role. 
```

7. Click **Continue**, then click **Done**. 

### Grant Limited Access

> With this approach we will setup a custom role with the following permissions:

Reviewer: "setup" is a noun, "set up" is a verb.

```suggestion
With this approach, you can set up a custom role with the following permissions:
```

Permission | Details
---------- | --------
`bigquery.datasets.get` | This allows Segment to determine if the `__segment_reverse_etl` dataset exists.
`bigquery.jobs.create` | This allows Segment to execute queries on any datasets or tables your model query references, and also allows Segment to manage tables used for tracking.
`bigquery.tables.getData` | This allows Segment to run `SELECT` queries on tables that will be defined in the model. 

1. In BigQuery, navigate to **IAM & Admin > Roles**.
2. Click **+ CREATE ROLE** to create a new role.
3. Add **Title** and **Description** as you like.

> 4. Click **ADD PERMISSIONS** and add the permission listed in the above tables. You will need to repeat that until all required permissions are added.

Reviewer: The second sentence should be in active voice!

```suggestion
4. Click **ADD PERMISSIONS** and add the permission listed in the above tables. Repeat this step until you've added all required permissions.
```

    ```sql
    GRANT `roles/bigquery.dataEditor` ON SCHEMA `__segment_reverse_etl` TO "serviceAccount:<YOUR SERVICE ACCOUNT EMAIL>";
    ```

### BigQuery resource location
When connecting your BigQuery warehouse to Segment, you'll need to know the location of your resources.

You can find the location of your BigQuery resources using the following method:
1. In the BigQuery console, navigate to your dataset. In the explorer panel on the left, expand the project and dataset to view the tables.
2. Click on the name of the dataset, and it opens a page showing its details.
3. The Location of the dataset (like US or EU) is displayed in the Dataset Info.

## Set up BigQuery as your Reverse ETL source
1. In the BigQuery console, search for the service account you created. 
2. When your service account pulls up, click the 3 dots under **Actions** and select **Manage keys**. 
3. Click **Add Key > Create new key**. 
4. In the pop-up window, select **JSON** for the key type and click **Create**. The file will be downloaded. 
5. Copy all the content in the JSON file you created in the previous step. 
6. Open the Segment app and navigate to **Connections > Sources**. 

> 7. On the _My sources_ page, click **+ Add source**.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. On the My sources page, click **+ Add source**.  
```

8. Search for "BigQuery" and select the BigQuery source from the sources catalog. On the BigQuery overview page, click **Add Source**. 

> 9. On the _Set up BigQuery_ page, enter a name for your source and paste all the credentials you copied from previous step into the **Enter your credentials** section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. On the Set up BigQuery page, enter a name for your source and paste all the credentials you copied from previous step into the **Enter your credentials** section. 
```
